# Writing integration tests for graphics, input, and accessibility

## Existing tools

Consider streamlining the building of your RealmBuilder test realm using tools in //src/ui/testing/ such as the following:

- [UITestRealm](///src/ui/testing/ui_test_realm/README.md), a library to manage test realms on behalf of UI integration test clients.
- [test_ui_stack](///src/ui/testing/test_ui_stack/README.md), a library to provide UI-specific testing capabilities to test clients both in-
  and out-of-tree

## Guidelines for writing integration tests

We have Fuchsia-based _products_ built on the Fuchsia _platform_. As Fuchsia
platform developers, we want to ship a solid platform, and validate that the the
_platform_ works correctly for all our supported _products_. Integration tests
ensure we uphold correctness and stability of platform functionality that spans
two or more components, via our prebuilt binaries (such as Scenic) and API
contracts (over FIDL). This is especially valuable in validating our ongoing
platform migrations. One example is the set of touch dispatch paths, such as
from Scene Manager to Scenic to a UI client.

### Models of production

Integration tests model a specific product scenario by running multiple Fuchsia
components together. For example, to ensure that the "touch dispatch path from
device to client" continues to work as intended, we have a "touch-input-test"
that exercises the actual components involved in touch dispatch, over the actual
FIDLs used in production.

Because integration tests are a model, there can (and should) be some
simplification from actual production. Obviously, these tests won't run the
actual product binaries; instead, a reasonable stand-in is crafted for a test.
The idea is that it's the simplest stand-in that can be used in a test, which
still can catch serious problems and regressions.

Sometimes, it's not straightforward for the test to use an actual platform path
used in production; we use a reasonable stand-in for these cases too. For
example, we can't actually inject into `/dev/class/input-report`, so we have a
dedicated
[API surface](/sdk/fidl/fuchsia.input.injection/input_device_registry.fidl) on
Input Pipeline to accept injections in a test scenario.

The important thing is that the test gives us _confidence_ that evolution of
platform code and platform protocols will not break existing product scenarios.

### No flakes

When the scenario involves graphics, it's very easy to accidentally introduce
flakiness into the test, robbing us of confidence in our changes. Graphics APIs
operate across several dimensions of lifecycle, topology, and
synchronization/signaling schemes, in the domains of components, graphical
memory management, view system, and visual asset placement. Furthermore, these
APIs provide the basis for, and closely interact with, the Input APIs and the
Accessibility APIs.

The principal challenge is to write tests that set up a real graphics stack, in
a way that is robust against elasticity in execution time. We talk about those
challenges in "Synchronization challenges", below. There are other reasons for
tests going wrong, and most of them can be dealt with by enforcing hermeticity
at various levels. We talk about these first. A final challenge is to author
tests that model enough of the interesting complexity on just the platform side,
so that we know complex product scenarios don't break with platform evolution.

In general this translates to no sleeps or waits. If a test requires sleeps or waits, this is a bug and should be treated appropriately.
Every action by the test should be gated on a logical condition that the test
can observe. E.g., inject touch events only when the test observes the child
view is actually connected to the view tree and vending content to hit.

### Precarious stack of stuff

At the bottom we have graphics tests. Input tests build on top of graphics
tests. And accessibility tests build on top of input tests. Hence they have all
the same problems, just with more components. It is thus critical that a basic
graphics test is reasonable to write and understand, because they form the basis
for "higher level" tests that inherently have more complexity.

### Questions and answers

#### Why not just rely on product-side e2e tests?

Product owners must write e2e tests to ensure their product is safe from
platform changes. E2e tests are big, heavy, and expensive to run; often, they
are flaky as well. They are authored in a different repository, and run in their
own test automation regime ("CQ"). And they care about the subset of OS
functionality that their product relies on.

Given these realities, platform developers cannot rely on these e2e tests to
catch problems in platform APIs and platform code.

By authoring platform-side integration tests, platform developers can get
breakage signals much faster with less code in the tests, and systematically
exercise all the functionality used across the full range of supported products.
Product owners benefit by increased confidence in the platform's reliability.

#### Why all this emphasis on hermeticity?

Deterministic, flake-free tests increase the signal-to-noise ratio from test
runs. They make life better.

When our tests rain down flakes every day, we ignore these tests, and they
become noise. But when we try to fix the source of flakes, it often reveals a
defect in our practices, or APIs, or documentation, which we can fix (think
"impact"). Each of these hermeticity goals address a real problem that someone
in Fuchsia encountered. When we have hermeticity, everyone benefits, and Fuchsia
becomes better.

#### Why all this emphasis on integration tests?

Fuchsia's platform teams often have important migrations in progress that affect
products. Integration tests are a critical method of guaranteeing that our
platform changes are safe and stable with respect to our product partners.

#### What about CTS tests?

The
[Fuchsia Compatibility Test Suite](/docs/contribute/governance/rfcs/0015_cts)
ensures that the implementations offered by the Fuchsia platform conform to the
specifications of the Fuchsia platform. An effective CTS will have UI
integration tests, and so this guidance doc applies to those UI integration
tests.

## Prefer hermeticity

Various types of
[hermeticity](/docs/concepts/testing/v2/test_runner_framework#hermeticity) make
our tests more reliable.

### Package hermeticity

All components used in the test should come from the same test package. This can
be verified by examining the fuchsia-pkg URLs launched in the test; they should
reference the test package. Don't invoke components from _another_ test's package!

If we don't have package hermeticity, and a component C is defined in the
universe U, then the C launched will come from U, instead of your locally
modified copy of C. This issue isn't so much a problem in CQ, because it
rebuilds everything from scratch. However, it is definitely an issue for local
development, where it causes surprises - another sharp corner to trap the
unwary. That is, a fix to C won't necessarily run in your test, and hampers
developer productivity.

### Environment hermeticity

All components in the test should be brought up and torn down in a custom
Fuchsia environment. In component framework v2, the RealmBuilder is responsible
for rebuilding the component topology for each test run and shutting down the
components in an ordered manner.

This practice forces component state to be re-initialized on each run of the
test, thereby preventing inter-test state pollution.

The advantages of doing so are:

- The test is far more reproducible, as the initial component state is always
  known to be good.
- It's trivial to run the test hundreds of times in a tight loop, thus
  speeding up flake detection.
- The test author can adjust the environment more precisely, and more
  flexibly, than otherwise possible.

#### No to `injected-services`

In component framework v2, it's possible to declare
[`injected-services`](https://fuchsia.dev/fuchsia-src/development/components/v2/migration/tests?hl=en#injected-services)
in a test's CML manifest. Declaring `injected-services` is somewhat of an
anti-pattern. It, too, also constructs a test environment, but _all the test
executions_ run in the _same environment_. If a service component had dirtied
state, a subsequent `TEST_F` execution will inadvertently run against that
dirtied state.

### Capability hermeticity

All components in the test should not be exposed to the actual root environment.
For FIDL protocols, this is not so much an issue. However, there are other types
of capabilities that have leaks. A good example is access to device
capabilities, such as `/dev/class/input-report` and
`/dev/class/display-coordinator`. Components that declare access to device
capabilities will actually access these capabilities, on the real device, in a
test environment.

We can gain capability hermeticity by relying on a reasonable fake. Two
examples.

- The display controller, with some configuration, can be faked out. A
  subsequent advantage is that graphics tests can be run in parallel!
  - One downside is that it's not easy to physically observe what the
    graphical state is, because the test no longer drives the real display.
    So development can be a little harder.
- The input devices are faked out with an injection FIDL, and that's how tests
  can trigger custom input.

## Synchronization challenges

Correct, flake-free inter-component graphics synchronization depends intimately
on the specific graphics API being used. The
[legacy Scenic API](/sdk/fidl/fuchsia.ui.scenic/session.fidl), sometimes called
"GFX", has sparse guarantees for when something is "on screen", so extra care
must be taken to ensure a flake free test. As a rule of thumb, if you imagine
the timeline of actions for every component stretching and shrinking by
arbitrary amounts, a robust test will complete for all CPU-schedulable
timelines. The challenge is to construct action gates where the test will hold
steady until a desired outcome happens. Sleeps and timeouts are notoriously
problematic for this reason. Repeated queries of global state (such as a pixel
color test) are another mechanism by which we could construct higher-level
gates, but incur a heavy performance penalty and adds complexity to debugging.

Another dimension of complexity is that much of client code does not interact
directly with Fuchsia graphics APIs; instead they run in an abstracted runner
environment. Web is a good example where the client code cannot directly use
Scenic APIs. Some facilities can be piped through the runner, but
tests generally cannot rely on full API access. Some runners even coarsen the
timestamps, which also complicates testing a bit.

One more subtlety. We're interested in the "state of the scene graph", which is
not precisely the same thing as "state of the rendering buffer". For most
purposes, they are loosely equivalent, because the entity taking a visual
screenshot is the same entity that holds the scene graph - Scenic. However,
specific actions, like accessibility color adjustments, will not be accurately
portrayed in a visual screenshot, because the color adjustment takes place in
hardware, below Scenic.

## Using the View Observer Protocol

Use `fuchsia.ui.observation.geometry.Provider` to correctly know when a view is
present in the scene graph. Refer [here](/src/ui/tests/view_observer_guide.md)
for more details on how to use the API

### Test setup - Realm Builder

The
[Touch Input Test](/src/ui/tests/integration_input_tests/touch/touch-input-test.cc)
is constructed using the Realm Builder
[library](/docs/development/testing/components/realm_builder). This library is
used to construct the test [Realm](/docs/concepts/components/v2/realms) in which
the components under test operate. The test suite, hereafter test driver
component, is a component.

Realm Builder (and CFv2 in general) allows us to be explicit about what
capabilities are routed to and from components. This is crucial for testing
because it allows test authors to have fine-grained control over the test
environment of their components. Take for example `scenic`. In
`touch-input-test`, a handle to `fuchsia.hardware.display.Provider` from
`fake-display-coordinator-connector#meta/display-coordinator-connector.cm`
is routed. By providing a fake hardware display provider, we can write
integration tests without having to use the real display controller. This
mapping of source and target is explicitly written in the test
[file](/src/ui/tests/integration_input_tests/touch/touch-input-test.cc) during
Realm construction.

## Modeling complex scenarios

The graphics API allows each product to generate an arbitrarily complex scene
graph. However, the products we have today typically rely on a few "core
topologies" that are stable and suitable for the product to build on.

It's a valuable exercise to capture each of these core topologies in our
platform integration tests. Some examples:

- Touch dispatch to clients which nest multiple views within a single client.
  - Some Fuchsia clients employ a two-view topology for security reasons, to isolate a view which receipted input from one which displays graphics. Having a test which exercises this topology ensures that these clients are correctly using our APIs, and that our changes don't accidentally break this contract.
- One parent view and two child views to ensure touch
  dispatch is routed to the correct view.

Developing new models are also how we test new topologies and interaction
patterns to make sure the APIs are sensible and usable, and serve as as a
foundation for converting an entire product.
