fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv4/100B/10Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv4/100B/50Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv4/10kB/10Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv4/10kB/50Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv4/1B/10Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv4/1B/50Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv4/1kB/10Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv4/1kB/50Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv4/60kB/10Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv4/60kB/50Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv6/100B/10Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv6/100B/50Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv6/10kB/10Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv6/10kB/50Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv6/1B/10Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv6/1B/50Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv6/1kB/10Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv6/1kB/50Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv6/60kB/10Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: MultiWriteRead/UDP/IPv6/60kB/50Messages
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/TCP/IPv4/1000kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/TCP/IPv4/100kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/TCP/IPv4/10kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/TCP/IPv4/1kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/TCP/IPv4/500kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/TCP/IPv6/1000kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/TCP/IPv6/100kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/TCP/IPv6/10kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/TCP/IPv6/1kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/TCP/IPv6/500kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/UDP/IPv4/100B
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/UDP/IPv4/10kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/UDP/IPv4/1B
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/UDP/IPv4/1kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/UDP/IPv4/60kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/UDP/IPv6/100B
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/UDP/IPv6/10kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/UDP/IPv6/1B
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/UDP/IPv6/1kB
fuchsia.network.socket.loopback.netstack3: WriteRead/UDP/IPv6/60kB
