fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Baseline/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Baseline/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Baseline/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Baseline/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Baseline/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Baseline/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Baseline/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Baseline/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Increase/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Increase/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Increase/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Increase/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Increase/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Increase/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Increase/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Increase/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/InitialIncrease/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/InitialIncrease/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/InitialIncrease/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/InitialIncrease/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/InitialIncrease/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/InitialIncrease/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/InitialIncrease/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/InitialIncrease/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Peak/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Peak/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Peak/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Peak/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Peak/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Peak/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Peak/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Interfaces/Peak/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Baseline/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Baseline/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Baseline/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Baseline/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Baseline/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Baseline/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Baseline/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Baseline/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Increase/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Increase/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Increase/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Increase/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Increase/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Increase/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Increase/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Increase/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/InitialIncrease/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/InitialIncrease/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Peak/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Peak/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Peak/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Peak/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Peak/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Peak/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Peak/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/TCP/Peak/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Baseline/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Baseline/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Baseline/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Baseline/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Baseline/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Baseline/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Baseline/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Baseline/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Increase/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Increase/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Increase/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Increase/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Increase/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Increase/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Increase/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Increase/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/InitialIncrease/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/InitialIncrease/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/InitialIncrease/Memory/Shared
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Peak/Handles/Channel
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Peak/Handles/Eventpair
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Peak/Handles/Fifo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Peak/Handles/Socket
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Peak/Handles/Total
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Peak/Handles/Vmo
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Peak/Memory/Private
fuchsia.netstack.resource_usage.netstack3: Sockets/UDP/Peak/Memory/Shared
