# zither

`zither` is a collection of FIDL backends busyboxed into a single tool. These
backends are united around two related aims: to aide in the modeling of memory
formats in FIDL - especially those of significance to the Fuchsia platform
(e.g., syscall and ZBI data layouts) - streamlining their use among supported
platform languages; to generate various transformations of the syscall
interface for the purposes of the interface's definition in the kernel, the
vDSO, in documentation, as well as in various tooling contexts.

See
```sh
fx run-in-build-dir $(fx list-build-artifacts --expect-one --name zither tools) --help
```
for information on `zither`'s command line interface.

## Supported backends

The supported backends correspond to top-level subdirectories under
[backends/](backends), each defining a package of the name
`go.fuchsia.dev/fuchsia/zircon/tools/zither/backends/${name}`. The main export
of each such package is a function, `NewGenerator()`, that creates a type
implementing the following interface, defined in zither's `main`:

```go
// generator represents an abstract generator of bindings.
type generator interface {
  // DeclOrder gives the declaration order desired by the backend.
  DeclOrder() zither.DeclOrder

  // DeclCallback is a callback intended to be passed to zither.Summarize()
  // which will be called on each Decl in topological 'dependency' order. This
  // can be used to build up additional, backend-specific information during
  // the main phase of FIDL declaration processing.
  DeclCallback() func(zither.Decl)

  // Generate generates bindings into the provided output directory, returning
  // the list of outputs emitted.
  Generate(summary zither.LibrarySummary, outputDir string) ([]string, error)
}
```

 See `backends/${name}/README.md` for more information about a particular
 backend.

## Testing
zither's testing strategy is three-fold.

### Build-time golden tests
We run golden tests at build-time, leveraging the
[golden_files()][golden_files.gni] GN machinery. Executing tests at build-time
can be significantly more convenient than at runtime: ninja executes them with
maximal parallelism, testing is a side-effect of building and not something
that requires complex packaging - and GN specification - of golden and
generated files (which will quickly grow to be quite numerous). Per the
underling machinery, the update of golden files will occur automatically during
building if the [`update_goldens`][update_goldens] GN arg is set (which is
highly recommended) or otherwise via `cp` commands emitted in build failures.
The updating in either case can be streamlined by `fx check-goldens`.

An individual test cases correspond to a test FIDL library, for which the
goldens are the generated outputs for each appropriate zither backend. The test
cases and goldens are organized as follows, under the `testdata` subdirectory:
```
testdata/<case name>/
    <case library `zither.${case_name}` (with s/_/.)>

    goldens/
        <backend name>/
            <the files generated by this backend from the associated library>
```
Note that since underscores are not a permitted within a FIDL library name, we
expect to derive a library name from a case name with a substitution of '_'
with '.'.

See [`zither_golden_test()`](BUILD.gn) for how a test case is specified.

### Compilation integration tests
Testing that code was emitted as expected can only be part of the strategy; one
needs to further verify that the generated code is actually valid and compiles.
This is covered by another form of build-time testing that aims to do exactly
that for each of the supported backends. This happens automatically in
`zither_golden_test()` instances.

### Basic unit-testing
Finally, pieces of the generation logic of sufficient modularity and complexity
will be conventionally unit-tested. This in particular includes the translation
from FIDL's IR to another of zither's.


[golden_files.gni]: /build/testing/golden_files.gni
[update_goldens]: /docs/gen/build_arguments.md#update_goldens
