<!-- mdformat off(templates not supported) -->
{% set rfcid = "RFC-0229" %}
{% include "docs/contribute/governance/rfcs/_common/_rfc_header.md" %}
# {{ rfc.name }}: {{ rfc.title }}
{# Fuchsia RFCs use templates to display various fields from _rfcs.yaml. View the #}
{# fully rendered RFCs at https://fuchsia.dev/fuchsia-src/contribute/governance/rfcs #}
<!-- SET the `rfcid` VAR ABOVE. DO NOT EDIT ANYTHING ELSE ABOVE THIS LINE. -->

<!-- mdformat on -->

## Summary

This document establishes that the present FIDL wire format and interaction
model, to be known as **FIDL 2023**, will be supported for at least three years.

## Motivation

FIDL is many things: language, compiler, bindings, wire format, and interaction
model. This RFC is concerned with the last two, because they are what matter for
ABI compatibility. Both have changed significantly over the years. For example,
we recently migrated the wire format for [RFC-0113: Efficient
envelopes][rfc-0113], and revised the interaction model for [RFC-0138: Handling
unknown interactions][rfc-0138]. These changes were possible because we were
aware of all code using FIDL and could update it all. In the future, as the
platform matures, this will not be the case. We need to start thinking about
long term ABI compatibility.

## Stakeholders

_Facilitator:_ abarth@google.com

_Reviewers:_ hjfreyer@google.com, ianloic@google.com, sethladd@google.com,
ddorwin@google.com

_Consulted:_ quiche@google.com, wilkinsonclay@google.com

_Socialization:_ The plan for FIDL 2023 was discussed several times in FIDL team
meetings before this RFC was written.

## Design

The goal of this proposal is to define FIDL 2023, and ratify the plan to support
it for at least three years from the acceptance of this RFC.

### Scope

FIDL 2023 refers to the state of the FIDL **wire format** and **interaction
model** as of Sept 2023. All other parts of FIDL are out of scope.

The wire format specifies how FIDL messages are encoded and decoded on the wire.
This includes transactional messages used in the interaction model, and other
use cases via the [RFC-0120] API for standalone encoding and decoding. The wire
format is already [documented][wire-format], but some things are worth noting:

* The magic number is 1. Decoding must fail for any other magic number.
* The at-rest flags include the "v2 indicator" `0x0002`. Decoding must fail if
  this bit is not set.
* The other flag bits must not be validated. Decoding must _not_ fail due to the
  value of presently unused at-rest flags or dynamic flags.

The interaction model specifies how FIDL clients and servers must behave. For
example, it includes the fact that a FIDL peer must close its channel endpoint
upon failing to decode an incoming message. The interaction model does not yet
have comprehensive documentation (see [Documentation](#documentation)), but it
is tested in the FIDL [dynsuite].

FIDL 2023 includes changes to the wire format and interaction model from all
RFCs to date, notably the following:

* [RFC-0061: Extensible unions][rfc-0061]
* [RFC-0113: Efficient envelopes][rfc-0113]
* [RFC-0120: Standalone use of the FIDL wire format][rfc-0120]
* [RFC-0137: Discard unknown data in FIDL][rfc-0137]
* [RFC-0138: Handling unknown interactions][rfc-0138]

Note that some RFCs have not been implemented in all bindings. In particular,
the Go and Dart bindings have not been updated for [RFC-0137]. They are
therefore not fully FIDL 2023 compliant.

### Support

FIDL 2023 is a [long-term support][] (LTS) version of the FIDL wire format and
interaction model. It will be supported for at least three years from the date
this RFC is accepted.

This does not preclude adding new features to FIDL. It just requires maintaining
compatibility with FIDL 2023. Furthermore, if we add any new features, they will
not automatically be part of the LTS guarantee.

Concretely, suppose someone compiles a program that uses FIDL 2023. That binary
should work correctly, to the extent that "working correctly" depends on FIDL,
throughout the support period, assuming:

* the rest of the software stack (notably, Zircon and Component Framework)
  maintains similar long term compatibility;
* the FIDL protocols it uses are unchanged or evolve in ABI compatible ways;
* the peers it communicates with maintain application-level compatibility.

Here are some positive examples (allowed under this proposal) and negative
examples (not allowed) to illustrate what FIDL 2023 support means.

> *Positive example.* The program uses a protocol with a struct. We add a field
> to this struct, breaking ABI. The program fails to decode a message when
> communicating with a newer peer. This **does not** violate FIDL 2023.

> *Negative example.* We change the wire format to use a sparse representation
> for tables. The program fails to decode a message using this representation.
> This **violates** FIDL 2023, even if we soft transition the change using
> flags, because that still requires recompiling the program.

> *Positive example.* We add a new type to FIDL, `uint128`. The program is
> unable to decode this type. This **does not** violate FIDL 2023, because
> `uint128` is not part of FIDL 2023. If the protocols used by the program do
> not use `uint128`, there is no problem. If they evolve in an ABI compatible
> way to use `uint128` _after_ the program is compiled, there is also no issue,
> because such values would necessarily be in envelopes or in new methods.
> Finally, if the change to use `uint128` occurs _before_ compiling the program,
> then the program can safely decode `uint128` values.

> *Positive example.* We change the interaction model to allow server-initiated
> two-way methods. This **does not** violate FIDL 2023 for reasons similar to
> the `uint128` example above.

> *Negative example.* We change the interaction model to allow clients to send
> epitaphs to servers. This **violates** FIDL 2023 because the program may
> implement a server and will be unable to handle such a message correctly.

These examples show that the wire format and interaction model can still change,
but changes must be additive and opt-in (e.g., opting to use the `uint128` type
in a new API). Code that does not opt in to new features must continue to work
for the duration of FIDL 2023 support.

## Performance

Committing ourselves to long term support for FIDL 2023 means we cannot improve
performance of existing features by changing the wire format.

## Ergonomics

This proposal has no impact on ergonomics.

## Backwards compatibility

This proposal is all about backwards compatibility so it is discussed
throughout rather than in this section.

## Security considerations

We may break the commitment to fully supporting FIDL 2023 if we discover a
security problem that requires making incompatible changes.

## Privacy considerations

We may break the commitment to fully supporting FIDL 2023 if we discover a
privacy problem that requires making incompatible changes.

## Testing

We will continue to test the wire format with [GIDL] and the interaction model
with the [dynsuite]. We will also invest in growing them to increase coverage of
FIDL 2023 features and edge cases. This will help ensure that we keep our
promise of long term support.

## Documentation {#documentation}

We must update the [FIDL wire format specification][wire-format]. For example,
it could say that everything is part of FIDL 2023 unless otherwise noted.

The [FIDL bindings specification][bindings-spec] documents some aspects of the
interaction model, but it is mixed with guidelines on the structure and style of
generated bindings. We must instead create a new "FIDL interaction model
specification". Each statement in it should be backed by a [dynsuite] test.

## Drawbacks, alternatives, and unknowns

### Drawback: Harder to improve FIDL

This proposal will make it harder to evolve and improve FIDL. For example,
changing the wire format will be much more costly. Not only would we have to
execute a soft transition with flags (as before), but we would have to keep the
old read path for much longer, even if we think nothing is relying on it.

### Alternative: A different length of time

This proposal indicates we are taking long term compatibility more seriously.
Three years feels roughly appropriate. It's longer than we've ever provided
compatibility before. But there's not much more behind it than that. We could
commit to a different number of years.

### Unknown: ABI compatibility in practice

We are still learning what long term ABI compatibility on Fuchsia looks like in
practice. Ideally, FIDL provides a stable foundation that developers can use to
evolve applications and services. In the past, we've made breaking changes to
FIDL to better support evolvability and compatibility, for example in [RFC-0061:
Extensible unions][rfc-0061]. Does FIDL 2023 have all the features needed by
layers above to provide long term compatibility, or is it missing some?

## Prior art and references

All successful operating systems provide some degree of long term compatibility.
There is no question that Fuchsia, and hence FIDL, needs to as well.

The concept of [long-term support] releases is common in open source software.
For example, the Linux kernel designates certain releases as "longterm".

[rfc-0061]: /docs/contribute/governance/rfcs/0061_extensible_unions.md
[rfc-0113]: /docs/contribute/governance/rfcs/0113_efficient_envelopes.md
[rfc-0120]: /docs/contribute/governance/rfcs/0120_standalone_use_of_fidl_wire_format.md
[rfc-0137]: /docs/contribute/governance/rfcs/0137_discard_unknown_data_in_fidl.md
[rfc-0138]: /docs/contribute/governance/rfcs/0138_handling_unknown_interactions.md
[at-rest flags]: /docs/contribute/governance/rfcs/0138_handling_unknown_interactions.md#transactional-message-header-v4
[GIDL]: /tools/fidl/gidl/README.md
[dynsuite]: /src/tests/fidl/dynsuite/README.md
[wire-format]: /docs/reference/fidl/language/wire-format/README.md
[bindings-spec]: /docs/reference/fidl/language/bindings-spec.md
[long-term support]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long-term_support
