**Date:** April 12, 2023

**Version:** F10

The following changes have been implemented:

### Component Framework

Most components now run as v2, except Opal, Kronk, `cast_runner`, and `web_instance`.

### Developer

#### Bazel

The following improvements have been made in the Bazel workflows:

-   FIDL libraries defined outside of the Fuchsia platform must not start with Fuchsia.
-   `fuchsia_package.deps` should be updated to `fuchsia_package.components` and `fuchsia_package.tools`.
-   Running and publishing a component prints each step being taken; the user does not need to make any changes for this update.

***

**Issue:** Need to add initial publishing rules.  
**Impact:** A new `fuchsia_task_publish` rule was added, which is automatically created for packages. Calling `bazel run :pkg.publish` will now publish the package.

***

**Issue:** Need to add parallel extraction to CIPD downloads.  
**Impact:** Parallel extraction was added to CIPD downloads, which increased download speeds of Clang and SDK.

***

**Issue:** Need to deprecate deps in `fuchsia_package`. 
**Impact:** Deprecated deps in `fuchsia_package`. No changes needed, but a warning will be printed until `fuchsia_package` is updated to use components and assets.

***

#### ffx

The following updates have been made in `ffx` and other tools:

-   Product bundle downloads will not redownload a product bundle if it already exists on your machine.
-   New ability to clean up previously downloaded product bundles.
-   Improved UI when downloading product bundles.
-   `ffx` component copy plugin supports copying files between host and a component on target.
-   More reliable resumption of incomplete downloads.
-   Profile tooling:
    -   Added option to report the memory usage with buckets.
    -   Fixed accounting bug involving incorrect charging of indirect VMOs.
    -   Cosmetic improvements, including adding an option to choose between human readable sizes and exact sizes, aligning outputs, and clearer descriptions.
-   Debugging tools:
    -   Enhanced compatibility support so users should see fewer version mismatches.
    -   Resolved "Debugger not connected to device" issue for Fuchsia VSCode extension.
-   All component tests are subject to the hermetic resolver by default; tests that launch components in packages other than the test component's package will fail unless the packages are declared. See [Hermetic component resolution](/docs/development/testing/components/test_runner_framework.md#hermetic-resolver).
    -   Updated `ffx log --severity` to take both warn and warning as arguments.
-   Graduated from experimental:
    -   `ffx package build` – Build a package.
    -   `ffx repository publish` – Publish one or more packages to a repository.
    -   `ffx repository package list` – List all packages in a repository.
    -   `ffx repository package show` – List the contents of a package.
-   Introduced to experimental:
    -   `ffx package far` – For working with generic `far` commands.
    -   `ffx package archive` – For working with package archives.
    -   `ffx driver list-devices` – For fuzzy matching support.
-   Added `ffx driver list-nodes-groups`.
-   Added `ffx inspect list-files`.
    -   Removed hub usage from `ffx inspect list-files` and deleted `ffx inspect show-files`.
    -   The API for querying inspect based on a filename now moves to `ffx inspect show --file` and takes a filename relative to the component namespace.
-   More `ffx component` plugins (`destroy, doctor, explore, start, stop, resolve, reload`) support partial matching on moniker, URL and instance ID.
-   When specifying `--categories` for `ffx trace`, a wildcard `*` may be used to indicate enabling all categories matching a given prefix; for example, `kernel*` would match `kernel:ipc`, `kernel:syscall`, etc.
-   Added the ability to print a `set, map, unordered_set`, and `unordered_map` in C++.
-   Added a new setting `source-map` that allows more flexibility in finding source files.
-   Improved the display of connection errors.
-   Introduced synchronous UI; short-running commands will block the input.
-   Added `--force-repo` option to `ffx product-bundle get,` which will overwrite a package repository rather than declining to do so because the prior one is present.
-   Increased tracing debug output in logs.
-   No partial downloads: using temporary directory until download is complete, avoiding partial download issues.

***

**Issue:** Support for OAuth2 OOB is being removed.  
**Impact:** Update to default to new OAuth2 non-OOB workflow.

***

**Issue:** When listing or removing bundles, the `product-bundle` tool would not return anything and would not effectively inform the user.  
**Impact:** Update has been made so that tool is more explicit when no bundles are found.

***

**Issue:** Users were unclear which bundles are about to be deleted by the `remove --all` command.  
**Impact:** Update has been made to list the bundles to be removed beforehand.

***

**Issue:** Sort order of `ffx product-bundle list` is causing the oldest image to appear at the top of the list.  
**Impact:** Update made to reverse sort order of list so that the newest bundles are listed first.

***

**Issue:** When attempting to `get` a duplicate product bundle message (PBM), the tool was printing the duplicate repo message instead of the duplicate bundle message.  
**Impact:** Fix was implemented to reorder PBM messages on duplicates.

***

**Issue:** Default remove commands were removing in-tree builds.  
**Impact:** Fix was implemented to not include in-tree builds in remove.

***

**Issue:** Users were unable to set their severity limit in logger.  
**Impact:** Drivers now support having their severity set dynamically via `ffx log --severity`.

### Diagnostics

-   The Archivist no longer provides Lifecycle events as a data source, only Inspect and Logs. Archivist was also refactored to ingest data using the new event stream capabilities.
-   [RFC-171](/docs/contribute/governance/rfcs/0171_improved_diagnostics_routing.md) was implemented and it is now ensured that all components get LogSink, improving developer experience.
-   Improvements to the triage parser and a few language improvements such as `_-separated numbers, Any, All`.
-   Sampler was refactored to not emit empty histogram buckets reducing the load on Cobalt.
-   `ffx inspect` gained new features such as: `ffx inspect list-files`,`iquery show –file` with globs, and was improved to not rely on the hub.
-   A few bugs were fixed for the Rust logging library and it became a bit smaller, saving space in BlobFS.

### FIDL

Support for unknown interactions is starting to roll out in binaries. See [RFC-0138](/docs/contribute/governance/rfcs/0138_handling_unknown_interactions.md).

### Graphics and Media

-   Various stability improvements to i915 on Tigerlake devices. Driver has been enabled by default.

***

**Issue:** Device was stuck at black screen after enabling "Display Settings" testcase.  
**Impact:** Fix was made to AMLogic display to correct some fixed panels.

***

**Issue:** Drivers were running into deadlocks when using Driver Framework v2.  
**Impact:** i915 display driver was moved to Driver Framework v2.

### HCI (Input, A11y, i18n, and View System)

**Issue:** Test failures occurring during scene controller.  
**Impact:** Update was made to allow clients to present a flatland view using a raw
`ViewportCreationToken`.

***

**Issue:** Highlights are a different color on Flatland.  
**Impact:** Fix was made to the a11y highlight color in Flatland.

***

**Issue:** Need to have screenshot capabilities.  
**Impact:** Update was made to add image compression skeleton.

***

**Issue:** Users should be notified when the clipboard contents change.  
**Impact:** Update was made to add a clipboard watch method.

***

**Issue:** Need to add image flip options API.  
**Impact:** Update was made to add image flip options API.

***

**Issue:** The `pixel_scale` field was deprecated and should be removed.  
**Impact:** Update was made to change the status of `pixel_scale` from deprecated to removed.

### Kernel

**Issue:** Update needed to emit a process record named "kernel" for PID 0 to restore parity with
the original `ktrace` importer.  
**Impact:** Process record was created for kernel with kernel threads and per-CPU event tracks.

***

**Issue:** Need ability to boot emulators through UEFI by default, locally and in automation.  
**Impact:** Update was made to enable UEFI testing on emulators in automation.

***

**Issue:** Need to migrate `zxc` library with `zx`.  
**Impact:** Update was made to migrate `zxc` references to `zx`.

***

**Issue:** Need to reduce padding in thread.  
**Impact:** Update was made to reduce padding in thread.

***

**Issue:** Updates needed for `ktrace` serializer templates to support `val_type` parameters and `StringRef` to accept string size parameters.  
**Impact:** Updates were made to serializer templates and dependents in `ktrace`.

***

**Issue:** Need to change references to `Undef __UNUSED` in C++.  
**Impact:** Update was made to change references from `Undef __UNUSED` to `maybe_unused` in C++.

***

**Issue:** Suggestion was made to implement optimistic timeslice extension.  
**Impact:** Improvements were made to kernel mutex performance when using timeslice extension.

### Virtualization

-   Improved error messages when launching VMs fail.
-   Ported the `vsh `tool from C++ to Rust.
-   Implemented cursor command support in `virtio-gpu`.
-   Added initial `vmm_launcher` component.