**Date:** August 3, 2023

**Version:** F13

The following changes have been implemented:

### Application Runtimes (Flutter, Starnix, and Web)

#### Starnix

The following updates have been made for Starnix:

* Added initial support for generic netlink.
* Added initial support for sysfs.
* Added initial support for RISC-V.
* Added fixes to get more LTP tests to pass.
* Added support for FUSE syscalls.
* Added support for mounting `ext4` from VMO-backed sources.
* Added support for block read ahead queue.
* Added support for `inotify`.
* Added support for `SIOCGIFFLAGS`/`SIOCSIFFLAGS` in `ioctl`.
* Added support for `InputDevice` and keyboard events.
* Implemented `ioctls` for `LoopDevice` (`/dev/loopN`).
* Implemented `fork()` syscall.
* Implemented vDSO backed `clock_getres()` syscall.
* Implemented `/proc/<pid>/oom_*`.
* Initial support for Fxfs in Starnix.
* Fixed issues related to UTC and timer.
* Fixed issues related to `seccomp`.
* Fixed security related issues and performed general cleanups.
* Refactored and fixed `remote_binder`.

### Developer

The following updates have been made for Developer workflows:

* Added enforcement of FIDL libraries used in host tools that are part of the
  SDK.
* Initial support for Fuchsia-controller available in source tree.
* Removed legacy overnet protocol. Overnet exclusively used a circuit switched
  connection.

### Diagnostics

The following updates have been made for Diagnostics:

* Removed the Dart Inspect library from the Fuchsia source tree.
* Updated Archivist to write logs to serial instead of the console.
* Updated Archivist to no longer ingest CFv1 data.
* Updated the diagnostics tools to accept monikers prefixed with `/,`, `./`,
  or nothing.

### FIDL

The following updates have been made for FIDL:

* Added requirement for explicit unknown interactions keywords.
* Moved FIDL Dart support out of the Fuchsia source tree.
* Removed FIDL C bindings.

### Software Delivery

The following updates have been made for Software Delivery:

* Added support for `fxblob`.
* Deleted `fuchsia.pkg/PackageCache.Open`.
* Stopped exposing the `pkgfs/versions` directory.
