docs/reference/syscalls/pager_create.md, before:

<!--
Copyright 2023 The Fuchsia Authors. All rights reserved.
Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style license that can be
found in the LICENSE file.

DO NOT EDIT. Generated from FIDL library zx by zither, a Fuchsia platform tool.

See //docs/reference/syscalls/README.md#documentation-generation for
regeneration instructions.
-->

# zx_pager_create

## Summary

Create a new pager object.

## Declaration

```c
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>

zx_status_t zx_pager_create(uint32_t options, zx_handle_t* out);
```

## Description

`zx_pager_create()` creates a new pager object.

When a pager object is destroyed, any accesses to its VMOs that would have required communicating
with the pager will fail as if [`zx_pager_detach_vmo()`] had been called. Furthermore, the kernel
will make an effort to ensure that the faults happen as quickly as possible (e.g. by evicting
present pages), but the precise behavior is implementation dependent.

## Rights

Caller job policy must allow **ZX_POL_NEW_PAGER**.

## Return value

`zx_pager_create()` returns ZX_OK on success, or one of the following error codes on failure.

## Errors

**ZX_ERR_INVALID_ARGS** *out* is an invalid pointer or NULL or *options* is
any value other than 0.

**ZX_ERR_NO_MEMORY** Failure due to lack of memory.

## See also

 - [`zx_pager_create_vmo()`]
 - [`zx_pager_detach_vmo()`]
 - [`zx_pager_supply_pages()`]

[`zx_pager_create_vmo()`]: pager_create_vmo.md
[`zx_pager_detach_vmo()`]: pager_detach_vmo.md
[`zx_pager_supply_pages()`]: pager_supply_pages.md

Commit message:

[kernel][vm] Pager handle rights
Add ZX_RIGHT_ATTACH_VMO and ZX_RIGHT_MANAGE_VMO to the default pager
rights. Document enforcement of the new rights for pager syscalls.
Enforcement will follow in a separate CL along with tests.

Remove ZX_RIGHT_GET_PROPERTY and ZX_RIGHT_SET_PROPERTY, since pagers
don't have any properties associated with them.

Bug: 52728
Change-Id: Ifb5a156b784ab5d39213f52a648c7f38cb7c940d
Reviewed-on: https://fuchsia-review.googlesource.com/c/fuchsia/+/870843
Reviewed-by: Carlos Pizano Uribe <cpu@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Roland McGrath <mcgrathr@google.com>
API-Review: Roland McGrath <mcgrathr@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Sage Barreda <sagebarreda@google.com>
Size-Review: Aaron Wood <aaronwood@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Rasha Eqbal <rashaeqbal@google.com>
API-Review: Carlos Pizano Uribe <cpu@google.com>

docs/reference/syscalls/pager_create.md, after:

<!--
Copyright 2023 The Fuchsia Authors. All rights reserved.
Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style license that can be
found in the LICENSE file.

DO NOT EDIT. Generated from FIDL library zx by zither, a Fuchsia platform tool.

See //docs/reference/syscalls/README.md#documentation-generation for
regeneration instructions.
-->

# zx_pager_create

## Summary

Create a new pager object.

## Declaration

```c
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>

zx_status_t zx_pager_create(uint32_t options, zx_handle_t* out);
```

## Description

`zx_pager_create()` creates a new pager object.

When a pager object is destroyed, any accesses to its VMOs that would have required communicating
with the pager will fail as if [`zx_pager_detach_vmo()`] had been called. Furthermore, the kernel
will make an effort to ensure that the faults happen as quickly as possible (e.g. by evicting
present pages), but the precise behavior is implementation dependent.

The returned handle will have the following rights:
 - **ZX_RIGHT_TRANSFER** - The handle may be transferred to another process.
 - **ZX_RIGHT_INSPECT** - May be inspected with [`zx_object_get_info()`].
 - **ZX_RIGHT_ATTACH_VMO** - May attach VMOs with [`zx_pager_create_vmo()`] and detach VMOs with
   [`zx_pager_detach_vmo()`].
 - **ZX_RIGHT_MANAGE_VMO** - May alter the contents or pager-related metadata of an owned VMO, e.g.
   with [`zx_pager_supply_pages()`] or [`zx_pager_op_range()`].

## Rights

Caller job policy must allow **ZX_POL_NEW_PAGER**.

## Return value

`zx_pager_create()` returns ZX_OK on success, or one of the following error codes on failure.

## Errors

**ZX_ERR_INVALID_ARGS** *out* is an invalid pointer or NULL or *options* is
any value other than 0.

**ZX_ERR_NO_MEMORY** Failure due to lack of memory.

## See also

 - [`zx_pager_create_vmo()`]
 - [`zx_pager_detach_vmo()`]
 - [`zx_pager_op_range()`]
 - [`zx_pager_supply_pages()`]

[`zx_pager_create_vmo()`]: pager_create_vmo.md
[`zx_pager_detach_vmo()`]: pager_detach_vmo.md
[`zx_pager_op_range()`]: pager_op_range.md
[`zx_pager_supply_pages()`]: pager_supply_pages.md
