docs/reference/syscalls/pager_detach_vmo.md, before:

<!--
Copyright 2023 The Fuchsia Authors. All rights reserved.
Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style license that can be
found in the LICENSE file.

DO NOT EDIT. Generated from FIDL library zx by zither, a Fuchsia platform tool.

See //docs/reference/syscalls/README.md#documentation-generation for
regeneration instructions.
-->

# zx_pager_detach_vmo

## Summary

Detaches a VMO from a pager.

## Declaration

```c
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>

zx_status_t zx_pager_detach_vmo(zx_handle_t pager, zx_handle_t pager_vmo);
```

## Description

Detaching *pager_vmo* from *pager* causes the kernel to stop queuing page requests for the VMO.
Subsequent accesses that would have generated page requests will instead fail.

No new **ZX_PAGER_VMO_READ** and **ZX_PAGER_VMO_DIRTY** requests will be generated after detaching,
but some requests may still be in flight. The pager service is free to ignore these requests, as the
kernel will resume and fault the threads that generated these requests. The final request the pager
service will receive is a **ZX_PAGER_VMO_COMPLETE** request.

The kernel is free to evict clean pages from detached VMOs, but will retain any dirty pages. Upon
receiving the **ZX_PAGER_VMO_COMPLETE** request, the pager service is expected to query these ranges
with [`zx_pager_query_dirty_ranges()`] and write them back with [`zx_pager_op_range()`]
**ZX_PAGER_OP_WRITEBACK_BEGIN** and **ZX_PAGER_OP_WRITEBACK_END**. Once they have been written back,
these pages will become clean again, so the kernel is free to evict them.

## Rights

*pager* must be of type **ZX_OBJ_TYPE_PAGER** and have **ZX_RIGHT_ATTACH_VMO** and
**ZX_RIGHT_MANAGE_VMO**.

*pager_vmo* must be of type **ZX_OBJ_TYPE_VMO** and have **ZX_RIGHT_WRITE**.

## Return value

`zx_pager_detach_vmo()` returns ZX_OK on success, or one of the following error codes on failure.

## Errors

**ZX_ERR_BAD_HANDLE** *pager* or *pager_vmo* is not a valid handle.

**ZX_ERR_WRONG_TYPE** *pager* is not a pager handle or *pager_vmo* is not a VMO handle.

**ZX_ERR_ACCESS_DENIED** *pager* does not have **ZX_RIGHT_ATTACH_VMO** or **ZX_RIGHT_MANAGE_VMO**,
or *pager_vmo* does not have **ZX_RIGHT_WRITE**.

**ZX_ERR_INVALID_ARGS**  *pager_vmo* is not a VMO created from *pager*.

## See also

 - [`zx_pager_create_vmo()`]
 - [`zx_pager_op_range()`]
 - [`zx_pager_query_dirty_ranges()`]

[`zx_pager_create_vmo()`]: pager_create_vmo.md
[`zx_pager_op_range()`]: pager_op_range.md
[`zx_pager_query_dirty_ranges()`]: pager_query_dirty_ranges.md

Commit message:

[vm][docs] Clarify pager behavior on VMO detach
The kernel will not generate pager requests after detach, so syscalls
that would resolve requests no longer work. All clean pages are
decommitted on detach, and no new ones are committed, so pages cannot be
supplied. Enforcement of this will follow in a separate CL.

Detach can be called with dirty pages present. So the pager should still
be able to query dirty state and writeback dirty pages. This works
correctly today.

Documentation change only.

Bug: 78063
Change-Id: I36435c208f5791b6522c37acb2a9454a0ae61e39
Reviewed-on: https://fuchsia-review.googlesource.com/c/fuchsia/+/872262
API-Review: Carlos Pizano Uribe <cpu@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Carlos Pizano Uribe <cpu@google.com>
Fuchsia-Auto-Submit: Rasha Eqbal <rashaeqbal@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Sage Barreda <sagebarreda@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Rasha Eqbal <rashaeqbal@google.com>

docs/reference/syscalls/pager_detach_vmo.md, after:

<!--
Copyright 2023 The Fuchsia Authors. All rights reserved.
Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style license that can be
found in the LICENSE file.

DO NOT EDIT. Generated from FIDL library zx by zither, a Fuchsia platform tool.

See //docs/reference/syscalls/README.md#documentation-generation for
regeneration instructions.
-->

# zx_pager_detach_vmo

## Summary

Detaches a VMO from a pager.

## Declaration

```c
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>

zx_status_t zx_pager_detach_vmo(zx_handle_t pager, zx_handle_t pager_vmo);
```

## Description

Detaching *pager_vmo* from *pager* causes the kernel to stop queuing page requests for the VMO.
Subsequent accesses that would have generated page requests will instead fail.

No new **ZX_PAGER_VMO_READ** and **ZX_PAGER_VMO_DIRTY** requests will be generated after detaching,
but some requests may still be in flight. The pager service is free to ignore these requests, as the
kernel will resume and fault the threads that generated these requests. The final request the pager
service will receive is a **ZX_PAGER_VMO_COMPLETE** request.

The following pager syscalls will fail on a detached VMO:
 - [`zx_pager_supply_pages()`]
 - [`zx_pager_op_range()`] with **ZX_PAGER_OP_DIRTY** and **ZX_PAGER_OP_FAIL**
And the following will continue working as before the detach:
 - [`zx_pager_query_dirty_ranges()`]
 - [`zx_pager_query_vmo_stats()`]
 - [`zx_pager_op_range()`] with **ZX_PAGER_OP_WRITEBACK_BEGIN** and **ZX_PAGER_OP_WRITEBACK_END**

The kernel is free to evict clean pages from detached VMOs, but will retain any dirty pages. Upon
receiving the **ZX_PAGER_VMO_COMPLETE** request, the pager service is expected to query these ranges
with [`zx_pager_query_dirty_ranges()`] and write them back with [`zx_pager_op_range()`]
**ZX_PAGER_OP_WRITEBACK_BEGIN** and **ZX_PAGER_OP_WRITEBACK_END**. Once they have been written back,
these pages will become clean again, so the kernel is free to evict them.

## Rights

*pager* must be of type **ZX_OBJ_TYPE_PAGER** and have **ZX_RIGHT_ATTACH_VMO** and
**ZX_RIGHT_MANAGE_VMO**.

*pager_vmo* must be of type **ZX_OBJ_TYPE_VMO** and have **ZX_RIGHT_WRITE**.

## Return value

`zx_pager_detach_vmo()` returns ZX_OK on success, or one of the following error codes on failure.

## Errors

**ZX_ERR_BAD_HANDLE** *pager* or *pager_vmo* is not a valid handle.

**ZX_ERR_WRONG_TYPE** *pager* is not a pager handle or *pager_vmo* is not a VMO handle.

**ZX_ERR_ACCESS_DENIED** *pager* does not have **ZX_RIGHT_ATTACH_VMO** or **ZX_RIGHT_MANAGE_VMO**,
or *pager_vmo* does not have **ZX_RIGHT_WRITE**.

**ZX_ERR_INVALID_ARGS**  *pager_vmo* is not a VMO created from *pager*.

## See also

 - [`zx_pager_create_vmo()`]
 - [`zx_pager_op_range()`]
 - [`zx_pager_query_dirty_ranges()`]

[`zx_pager_create_vmo()`]: pager_create_vmo.md
[`zx_pager_op_range()`]: pager_op_range.md
[`zx_pager_query_dirty_ranges()`]: pager_query_dirty_ranges.md
