docs/reference/fidl/language/error-catalog/_fi-0058.md, before:

## fi-0058: Reference to compiler generated payload name {:#fi-0058}

Anonymous method payloads have their names automatically generated by the FIDL
compiler, so that users of generated backend code may refer to the types they
represent as necessary. Referring to these types in *.fidl files themselves,
however, is forbidden:

{% include "docs/reference/fidl/language/error-catalog/label/_bad.md" %}

```fidl
{% includecode gerrit_repo="fuchsia/fuchsia" gerrit_path="tools/fidl/fidlc/tests/fidl/bad/fi-0058.test.fidl" exclude_regexp="\/\/ (Copyright 20|Use of|found in).*" %}
```

If you wish to refer to the payload type directly, you should extract the
payload type into its own named type declaration instead:

{% include "docs/reference/fidl/language/error-catalog/label/_good.md" %}

```fidl
{% includecode gerrit_repo="fuchsia/fuchsia" gerrit_path="tools/fidl/fidlc/tests/fidl/good/fi-0058.test.fidl" exclude_regexp="\/\/ (Copyright 20|Use of|found in).*" %}
```

All FIDL methods and events reserve the `[PROTOCOL_NAME][METHOD_NAME]Request`
name for their anonymous request payloads. Infallible two-way methods
additionally reserve `[PROTOCOL_NAME][METHOD_NAME]Response`. Fallible
two-methods reserve `[PROTOCOL_NAME][METHOD_NAME]TopResponse` instead.

<!-- TODO(fxbug.dev/109789): Remove last sentence once TopResponse is gone. -->

Commit message:

[fidl] Remove TopResponse structs
This CL makes fidlc use the result union as the top level response for
methods that are flexible or use error syntax, rather than wrapping it
in a TopResponse struct.

For example, given this method:

    protocol Foo {
        strict Bar() -> (struct { b bool; }) error enum {};
    };

Previously Bar would desugar like this:

    Bar() -> (@generated_name("FooBarTopResponse") struct {
        result @generated_name("Foo_Bar_Result") strict union {
            1: response @generated_name("Foo_Bar_Response") struct {
                b bool;
            };
            2: err @generated_name("Foo_Bar_Error") enum {};
        };
    });

Now, it desugars like this:

    Bar() -> (@generated_name("Foo_Bar_Result") strict union {
        1: response @generated_name("Foo_Bar_Response") struct {
            b bool;
        };
        2: err @generated_name("Foo_Bar_Error") enum {};
    });

A follow-up will remove maybe_response_result_type from the IR, since it
is now always the same as maybe_response_payload.

Test: fx check-goldens fidl
Test: fx test fidl
Bug: 95231
Change-Id: Ic024951c96e1ac2879c21de621c7f235e8eb4a53
Reviewed-on: https://fuchsia-review.googlesource.com/c/fuchsia/+/884340
API-Review: Ian McKellar <ianloic@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Mitchell Kember <mkember@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Ian McKellar <ianloic@google.com>

docs/reference/fidl/language/error-catalog/_fi-0058.md, after:

## fi-0058: Reference to compiler generated payload name {:#fi-0058}

Anonymous method payloads have their names automatically generated by the FIDL
compiler, so that users of generated backend code may refer to the types they
represent as necessary. Referring to these types in *.fidl files themselves,
however, is forbidden:

{% include "docs/reference/fidl/language/error-catalog/label/_bad.md" %}

```fidl
{% includecode gerrit_repo="fuchsia/fuchsia" gerrit_path="tools/fidl/fidlc/tests/fidl/bad/fi-0058.test.fidl" exclude_regexp="\/\/ (Copyright 20|Use of|found in).*" %}
```

If you wish to refer to the payload type directly, you should extract the
payload type into its own named type declaration instead:

{% include "docs/reference/fidl/language/error-catalog/label/_good.md" %}

```fidl
{% includecode gerrit_repo="fuchsia/fuchsia" gerrit_path="tools/fidl/fidlc/tests/fidl/good/fi-0058.test.fidl" exclude_regexp="\/\/ (Copyright 20|Use of|found in).*" %}
```

All FIDL methods and events reserve the `[PROTOCOL_NAME][METHOD_NAME]Request`
name for their anonymous request payloads. Strict, infallible two-way methods
additionally reserve `[PROTOCOL_NAME][METHOD_NAME]Response`. Two-way methods
that are flexible or fallible instead reserve:

- `[PROTOCOL_NAME]_[METHOD_NAME]_Result`
- `[PROTOCOL_NAME]_[METHOD_NAME]_Response`
- `[PROTOCOL_NAME]_[METHOD_NAME]_Error`

These names use underscores unlike the others for historical reasons.
